We've got a quick but super important detour away from logic and conditionals and comparisons for just
a moment.
We need to talk about how we are going to run our code from here on out.
So far we've been playing around in the console with little one liners like one plus two or four is
less than or equal to eight.
It's nice we can get an answer evaluated immediately and we see the result visually.
We are not writing an entire script with a bunch of code and executing it when we're ready.
We're typing something immediately.
This is actually called a ripple read evaluate print loop that's what the javascript console is here.
It reads in whatever you type it evaluates it it prints it and it loops meaning that I can do it continuously.
If I hit enter right now this is not valid javascript so it throws an error but it reads in that code
thinks this is code.
It realizes it's not when it evaluates it or it's not valid code.
It prints an error and then it loops so I can do something else.
So that's great for playing around for testing things out but it's not so great for creating larger
scripts and larger applications where we actually want to have access to our code after the fact.
This code all goes away.
If I refresh the page it's gone but also it's not that easy to write multiple lines of code and create
larger scripts in the console.
So we're going to be writing our code in JavaScript files.
Most of the time from here on out we'll try new things out we'll play around with new features in the
console for a couple minutes but most of what we'll do will be in a javascript file.
So we have a text editor I introduced this early on in the course I'm using V.S. code.
You can use any text editor you want.
You just need to make a dot J.S. file and unfortunately we can't simply open a javascript file in the
browser to run it.
We have to open an HMO file which has a script or it includes our JavaScript file.
The browser doesn't know how to handle just a plain JavaScript file.
It knows how to handle an HMO file that includes a javascript file.
So there's two steps.
Let's go ahead and try it out.
Over in V.S. code I'm going to make a new file I'm working in a folder called code.
I'll make a new file you can either right click new file he can go file new file or use a shortcut which
is what I usually do on a Mac.
Command n and I'll call this file appetite J S or script J Yes it does not matter as long as you can
reference it.
So I'll go with script actually and change your mind.
I like app update J.S. and we'll put some code in here.
We saw this really early on in the course.
I'm just going to add an alert that says it's working.
So if we get it working correctly we should see this pop up in the browser so that was the first step.
The next step is to create an HMO file and include a script.
So I'm going to go back to V.S. code.
I'll make a new file.
Command n and I'll call this one something that HMO.
A pretty standard generic name is index that HMO you can call it.
Code that aged him out Web site.
It doesn't matter as long as it ends in dot HMO.
And I'm going to put them in the same folder.
It just makes it easier when I'm including this javascript file so I'm going to put that there.
And if you're not super familiar with HCM Al don't fret.
You don't have to type this entire structure from scratch.
If you're using V.S. code or a similar Ed and V.S. code I can type exclamation point tab and it fills
all of this stuff out for me.
I get my standard boilerplate HDMI all essentially the template.
The thing we use every time or the code we write every time in an HMO file.
I'll give this a title like my first J s script and then I'll save this.
Right now we're not including the script at all.
So we need to include a script tag.
So I would just use autocomplete here type scripts are probably just SC will give it to you and then
we need to add a source attribute which corresponds to the path to our file.
So it's called app dot J.S. they're in the same folder.
So all I need to type here is app dot.
J Yes.
Later on we'll talk about the placement of this script for now.
You can put it anywhere in this age HTML document can go here.
You can go at the bottom of the body.
It doesn't matter for now because our script does not depend on any NEHTA.
We're not interacting with HDMI.
We're not creating elements or deleting elements or having events or anything like that.
We're just simply printing some content so you can put it wherever you want.
If you're familiar with JavaScript already in HCM all the problems that can arise from including a script
too soon then go ahead and put it down at the bottom but it doesn't matter for now it will later all
right.
So we have our script included hopefully.
Just make sure your name is matching whatever you name the file we'll save this and then go to my browser
while first I'm going to open it in the browser.
So there's multiple ways of doing this.
You go to your hcm l file you right click.
You can click open with you can just double click and it opens up in your default browser.
Which for me is chrome and we can see that it's working because my alert came through.
It says it's working and that's it.
We don't see any content on the page.
We're not really worrying about that.
So for most of this early part of the course we'll just be working in the console of our file that we're
opening up the HCM Al file.
So we've now successfully included a script it's working and this is a workflow we'll follow a lot.
If you're not very comfortable with it yet it takes some practice but it's just one of those things
you do often.
You could even make a template a folder that you could just duplicate anytime you wanted to make a new
script.
You could also do this where you make a new script here or call this one app to dot us and this one
will say alert.
I am a different script we'll save.
And then in my index I can just include app 2 instead I'll refresh my page now I get script 2.
I am a different script or app too so you don't have to make a new age team out and JavaScript file
every single time you want a new script.
You can just swap out which script you're including So then this brings me to one last important piece
in the console.
We've been typing things like let's go back to app J.S. we've been typing things like this for plus
4 or 3 equals equals 3 and we see an answer right away.
It's evaluated and printed back but in regular JavaScript in a script like we have here.
This won't show up this won't print anything.
It will be evaluated and JavaScript knows what the answer is and what the result is.
But it doesn't show it to us it doesn't print it out.
So if we want something to be explicitly printed out we have to use a method another method.
It's not a string method.
It's not a number method.
It has to do with something called the console.
The method is called console dot org and all that it does is it prints something to the console.
So as I mentioned when we write code like this.
If I refresh my page I make sure I'm including Hap dodges J.S. not app 2.
If I refresh we don't see anything.
If I open up the javascript console you can see nothing is printed out.
I can also move this over actually since we don't really care about this HCM Al page we just want the
Javascript.
I think what I would do instead is get rid of this right here and I'll just display the console next
to my editor.
So there is an HD humor page open I'm just viewing the console and I put them together in one window.
But as you can see nothing is showing up I refresh the page.
We don't see anything but if I instead use console dot log console dot log and then we pass in three
plus four whatever we had before.
I'll save and refresh the page.
I now get seven Hallelujah.
It's working.
So this is the way that we actually view values at least until we talk about HMO and displaying content
on a page.
For now we're just showing things in the console so console dot log is a special really commonly used
method often used for debugging and trying to understand what's going wrong somewhere or when you're
starting out just to print stuff so you can see while we're here.
I'll just show you a couple of flavors I'll just do one more flavor of console dot log.
Instead of logging something there's another method called console dot error and we can pass in some
content it will be printed but rather than printed nicely like this I'll refresh the page.
It shows up like a javascript error so it's red we can exit away maybe we can't usually.
I think you usually can anyway just shows up differently.
Console again refers to the javascript console log is going to print something out it will log it to
you.
And the last thing that we can pass in multiple things to console that log we could do three plus four
karma.
Hello karma.
How about true and save.
I'll refresh my page on the left.
And let me make this a little clearer what it does is it prints them all to the console.
It separates them with a space.
So you could have as many things as you want past into constant log and we'll print them all out just
separated by spaces.
Okay.
So that's the detour we're going gonna go back to logic and conditionals and making decisions in our
code.
Now that we have a place to actually write our code.
So the workflow make a file name it something DHHS included using a script tag in each team I'll file
double click that each time I'll file to open it in the browser and then in the browser we'll be working
on the console for now.
So just open the console again and we will be using console that log to display values.
All right.